Let's look at an application of path blinding to gain a better understanding of
the problem at hand and to learn
some relevant terminology that we will use throughout the lesson.
An exploratory robot may find itself dropped off
at a starting position and need to traverse the land,
water, or air to get to its goal position.
In between its start and goal locations,
there will inevitably be some obstacles.
Let's assume that our rover on land,
performing a recovery operation after a natural disaster.
The rover was dropped off at one position and needs to get to
another position to evaluate whether it's safe for humans to follow this path.
From the map, the robot knows that there's rubble present along its path.
Using GPS data and aerial photographs of the environment,
the rover must plan a path through the rubble to get to its destination.
One option that the rover has is to follow the shortest path,
the straight line between a start and goal locations.
However, due to the large amount of rubble present,
the rover might have to slow down considerably to safely navigate this path.
If time is of the essence,
this is likely not the ideal path to take.
Taking the direct route may not even be possible if there are
large obstacles in the way that the rover is unable to overcome.
The rover will need a solution to
this problem instead of just stopping dead in its tracks.
One algorithm that the robot can apply would have the rover traverse
any encountered obstacles clockwise until it reaches its intended path once again.
This algorithm is often referred to as the bug algorithm.
An alternate route altogether would be to go around as much rubble as possible.
To accomplish this, the path planning algorithm
would need a way to evaluate how long it takes to
traverse different types of land and to
take this information into account when planning a path.
The resulting path may look like this.
Although it is longer,
the rover would get to the goal location faster because it can move quicker on flat land.
More sophisticated algorithms may take into account the risk that the rover faces.
Rovers are expensive tools.
So, it'd be wise to avoid unnecessary danger in their operation.
The rover's path planning algorithm may have it avoid
unstable terrain or moving too closely to a cliff.
Two methods of evaluating algorithms are to
assess whether they are complete and whether they are optimal.
An algorithm is complete if it is able to find
a path between the start and the goal when one exists.
A complete algorithm is able to solve
all solvable problems and return no solution found to unsolvable problems.
An algorithm is optimal if it is able to find the best solution.
Best may mean different things.
In the simplest case,
best refers to the shortest path.
But as you saw on the rover example,
best may mean quickest or the path that minimizes
the risk the most or a combination of factors.